November 11 Cloud Release (#159)
astronomer/cloud-docs: docs/deployment-metrics.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Deployment Metrics'
title: 'Deployment Metrics'
id: deployment-metrics
---

## Overview

The Astronomer Cloud UI shows high level metrics for each Deployment in your Workspace. These metrics can be viewed from both the **Deployments** menu and individual Deployment pages.

This guide provides information about each available Deployment metric in Astronomer Cloud.

## Deployment Performance

You can view metrics related to a Deployment's performance directly in the Astronomer Cloud UI. Metrics are recorded and updated at the start of each hour in UTC.

<div class="text--center">
  <img src="/img/docs/deployment-metrics.png" alt="Metrics dashboard in the Cloud UI" />
</div>

> These metrics serve as high level reports on Deployment performance to be viewed at a glance. For example, failed task runs can be spotted in the Astronomer Cloud UI and then troubleshooted in the Airflow UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These metrics serve as high level reports on Deployment performance to be viewed at a glance. For example, you might notice failed task runs in the Astronomer Cloud UI and then navigate to the Airflow UI to troubleshoot.
```

The following sections describe each of these metrics from left to right.

### DAG Runs

> The first Deployment metric records successful and failed DAG runs over hour-long intervals. Each bar in the graph covers a complete hour in UTC. If a bar is partially or fully red, it means that one or multiple DAG runs failed within that hour interval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first Deployment metric records successful and failed DAG runs over hour-long intervals. A [DAG run](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/dag-run.html) is defined as an instantiation of a DAG in time. Each bar in the graph covers a complete hour in UTC. If a bar is partially or fully red, it means that one or multiple DAG runs failed within that hour interval.
```

The bolded value denotes the total number of DAGs that the metric is checking. The metric checks only unpaused DAGs for DAG runs, so this number might be less than the total number of DAGs in your Deployment.

::: caution

The DAG runs metric does not record DAG run timeouts as failed runs. To see timed out DAG runs, you must go into the Airflow UI to check on the statuses of each DAG run there.

:::

### Task Runs

The second Deployment metric records successful and failed task runs over hour-long intervals. Each bar in the graph covers a complete hour in UTC (for example, `16:00 to 17:00`). If a bar is partially or fully red, it means that one or multiple task runs failed within that hour interval.

You can hover over each bar to see the specific hour interval, the number of successful task runs, and the number of failed task runs.

The bolded value denotes the total number of tasks that the metric is checking. The metric checks only unpaused DAGs for task runs, so this number might be less than the total number of tasks in your Deployment.

### Worker CPU

> The third Deployment metric records the peak CPU usage by worker nodes over hour-long intervals. Each bar in the graph shows how much CPU power Workers were using at the height of their usage for a given hour in UTC. This value is measured as a percentage of the maximum allowed CPU usage for a Deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The third Deployment metric records the peak CPU usage by worker nodes over hour-long intervals. Each bar in the graph shows how much CPU was being used across _all_ Workers at the height of their usage for a given hour in UTC. This value is measured as a percentage of the maximum allowed CPU usage for a Deployment. The number of Celery Workers per Deployment auto-scales based on Worker Concurrency, which means that the maximum CPU for a single Deployment may change at any given time.
```

@conorbev How is maximum CPU configured? Is max CPU/Memory defined across workers? I.e. if your worker size is .5 PCU but KEDA auto-scales to 3 workers, does that change to `1.5 CPU`? Might be good to clarify that relationship here

Reviewer 2: Hey @paolaperaza , good question. The max CPU/Memory is purely driven off what you set on your worker AU resource slider so it won't change as KEDA adds more workers. So the current behavior of this chart (and the memory one) is to show the peak usage across all your workers rather than adding them all up. So, say you had 3 workers running, 2 of them are consuming 10% cpu and one of them is consuming 80% then the chart is going to show the 80% number.

We are totally open to changing this and figuring out better ways to represent this data though Kris, Constance, and Viraj gave this current method a thumbs up as a decent first pass. Also, later we'll add a more detailed analytics page where you can see the usage _per_ worker. Here we're just trying to come up with a way to represent the overview in a single chart.

My suggestion is:

`The third Deployment metric records the peak CPU usage across all worker nodes over hour-long intervals. This value is measured as a percentage of the maximum allowed CPU usage for a Deployment.`

^ kinda just small tweak and remove the middle sentence.

---
sidebar_label: 'Deployment Metrics'
title: 'Deployment Metrics'
id: deployment-metrics
---

## Overview

> The Astronomer Cloud UI shows high level metrics for each Deployment in your Workspace. These metrics can be viewed from both the **Deployments** menu and individual Deployment pages.

Reviewer 2: Again, here I think it'd be good to a top level: `over the past 24 hours` since it seems to get asked a lot

> The Astronomer Cloud UI shows high level metrics for each Deployment in your Workspace. These metrics can be viewed from both the **Deployments** menu and individual Deployment pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Astronomer Cloud UI shows high level metrics for each Deployment in your Workspace over the past 24 hours. These metrics can be viewed from both the **Deployments** menu and individual Deployment pages.
```

This guide provides information about each available Deployment metric in Astronomer Cloud.

## Deployment Performance

> You can view metrics related to a Deployment's performance directly in the Astronomer Cloud UI. Metrics are recorded and updated at the start of each hour in UTC.

Reviewer 2: In a few places this doc references UTC, I don't think it's bad or wrong necessarily to do so but when you hover over the bars it will show you the time both in UTC and your local browser time.

> You can view metrics related to a Deployment's performance directly in the Astronomer Cloud UI. Metrics are recorded and updated at the start of each hour in UTC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can view metrics related to a Deployment's performance directly in the Astronomer Cloud UI. Metrics are recorded and updated at the start of each hour, shown in both UTC and your local browser timezone.
```

<div class="text--center">
  <img src="/img/docs/deployment-metrics.png" alt="Metrics dashboard in the Cloud UI" />
</div>

These metrics serve as high level reports on Deployment performance to be viewed at a glance. For example, you might notice failed task runs in the Astronomer Cloud UI and then open the Airflow UI to troubleshoot.

The following sections describe each of these metrics from left to right.

### DAG Runs

The first Deployment metric records successful and failed DAG runs over hour-long intervals. A [DAG run](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/dag-run.html) is defined as an instantiation of a DAG in time.

> Each bar in the graph covers a complete hour in UTC. If a bar is partially or fully red, it means that one or multiple DAG runs failed within that hour interval.
> 
> You can hover over each bar to see the specific hour interval, the number of successful DAG runs, and the number of failed DAG runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each bar in the graph covers a complete hour (i.e. `16:00 to 17:00`). If a bar is partially or fully red, it means that one or multiple DAG runs failed within that hour interval.

You can hover over each bar to see the specific hour interval in both UTC and your local timezone, the number of successful DAG runs, and the number of failed DAG runs.
```

The bolded value denotes the total number of DAGs that the metric is checking. The metric checks only unpaused DAGs for DAG runs, so this number might be less than the total number of DAGs in your Deployment.

::: caution

The DAG runs metric does not record DAG run timeouts as failed runs. To see timed out DAG runs, you must go into the Airflow UI to check on the statuses of each DAG run there.

:::

> ### Task Runs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Task Instances
```

> The second Deployment metric records successful and failed task runs over hour-long intervals. Each bar in the graph covers a complete hour in UTC (for example, `16:00 to 17:00`). If a bar is partially or fully red, it means that one or multiple task runs failed within that hour interval.
> 
> You can hover over each bar to see the specific hour interval, the number of successful task runs, and the number of failed task runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second Deployment metric records successful and failed task instances over hour-long intervals. A [task instance](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/tasks.html#task-instances) is defined as an individual instantiation of a task at a specific point in time.

Each bar in the graph covers a complete hour (i.e. `16:00` - `17:00`). If a bar is partially or fully red, it means that one or more task instances failed within that one hour interval. You can hover over each bar to see the corresponding hour interval displayed in both UTC and your local timezone, and the number of successful and failed task instances within that hour interval.
```

> The bolded value denotes the total number of tasks that the metric is checking. The metric checks only unpaused DAGs for task runs, so this number might be less than the total number of tasks in your Deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bolded value denotes the total number of tasks that the metric is checking. The metric checks only unpaused DAGs for task instances, so this number might be less than the total number of tasks in your Deployment.
```

### Worker CPU

> The third Deployment metric records the peak CPU usage by worker nodes over hour-long intervals. Each bar in the graph shows how much CPU was being used across workers at the height of their usage for a given hour in UTC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The third Deployment metric records the peak CPU usage by worker nodes over hour-long intervals. Each bar in the graph shows how much CPU was being used across workers at the height of their usage for a given hour.
```

> This value is measured as a percentage of the maximum allowed CPU usage for a Deployment. The number of Celery workers per Deployment auto-scales based on worker concurrency, which means that the maximum allowed CPU for a single Deployment may change at any given time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This value is measured as a percentage of the maximum allowed CPU usage for a Deployment. The number of Celery workers per Deployment auto-scales based on a combination of worker concurrency and the number of `running` and `queued` tasks, which means that the maximum allowed CPU for a single Deployment may change at any given time.
```

Reviewer: Reread this @jwitz and wanted to add some more precision

> You can hover over each bar to see the specific hour interval and the specific percentage of maximum CPU that was used during peak usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can hover over each bar to see the specific hour interval and the percentage of maximum CPU that was used during peak usage.
```

The value above the graph shows the peak CPU usage over the last 24 hours.

### Worker Memory

> The third Deployment metric records the peak memory usage by worker nodes over hour-long intervals. Each bar in the graph shows how much memory workers were using at the height of their usage for a given hour in UTC. This value is measured as a percentage of the maximum allowed memory usage for a Deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fourth Deployment metric records the peak memory usage by worker nodes over hour-long intervals. Each bar in the graph shows how much memory all workers were using at the height of their usage for a given hour in UTC. This value is measured as a percentage of the maximum allowed memory usage for a Deployment. The number of Celery workers per Deployment auto-scales based on a combination of worker concurrency and the number of `running` and `queued` tasks, which means that the maximum allowed memory for a single Deployment may change at any given time.
```

Reviewer 2: Similar to the CPU chart, I'm not sure it is quite right to say we are showing the memory usage from `all` the workers, since we're not adding it all up or anything. We are "looking" at all of them under the covers but what we're showing is just whatever the peak memory usage across any of the workers was for each hour.

Reviewer 2: Although we don't have the detailed analytics page yet, the idea is, the user would see "Oh, at least one of my workers seems to be pretty close to maxing out its memory on this deployment. Let me drill in to the analytics and look in more detail".

Reviewer: Oh I see. So if you have 3 workers, each with .5 CPU and two of the workers are using .3 CPU but the 3rd worker is maxing out at .5 CPU then we just show the .5 CPU one and sort of "ignore" the others?

You can hover over each bar to see the specific hour interval and the specific percentage of maximum memory that was used during peak usage.

> The value above the graph shows the memory usage over the last 24 hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The value above the graph shows total memory usage across workers over the last 24 hours.
```

Reviewer 2: `The value above the graph shows the peak memory usage across all workers over the last 24 hours` ?
